AK Kafka image on docker (#51)
confluentinc/tutorials: kafka-on-docker/README.md

> <!-- title: How to run Kafka locally on Docker -->

Reviewer: may just be me but i'm used to saying / seeing "run in Docker" or "run with Docker". just a suggestion
```suggestion
<!-- title: How to run Kafka locally with Docker -->
```

> <!-- description: In this tutorial, learn how to run Kafka broker locally on your laptop, with step-by-step instructions and supporting code. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- description: In this tutorial, learn how to run a Kafka broker locally on your laptop, with step-by-step instructions and supporting code. -->
```

# How to run a Kafka broker locally with Docker

> When building or testing Apache®Kafka applications, it can be very helpful to have a local Kafka broker running locally.  Using [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) is possibly the fastest way to get a locally running Kafka broker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building or testing Apache Kafka® applications, it can be very helpful to have a Kafka broker running locally.  Using [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) is possibly the fastest way to get a locally running Kafka broker.
```

## Set up

> To run Kafka on Docker, you'll need to install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/). Then, after you've installed Docker Desktop, you'll use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) to create your Kafka container.  Docker Compose uses a YAML configuration file to manage your Docker components (services, volumes, networks, etc.) in an easy-to-maintain approach.  Docker Desktop includes Docker Compose, so there are no additional steps you need to take.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Kafka in Docker, you'll need to install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/). Then, after you've installed Docker Desktop, you'll use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) to create your Kafka container.  Docker Compose uses a YAML configuration file to manage your Docker components (services, volumes, networks, etc.) in an easy-to-maintain approach.  Docker Desktop includes Docker Compose, so there are no additional steps you need to take.
```

> Finally, you'll need an account on [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/explore) so Docker Desktop can pull the images specified in the Docker Compose file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you'll need an account on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/explore) so that Docker Desktop can pull the images specified in the Docker Compose file.
```

> Finally, you'll need an account on [docker hub](https://hub.docker.com/explore) so Docker Desktop can pull the images specified in the Docker Compose file.

Reviewer: wait is this true? I don't think you need an account and could just pull as an anonymous user, no?

Author: Yep good call, you don't need one.  I'll fix in a follow-up PR

      KAFKA_INTER_BROKER_LISTENER_NAME: PLAINTEXT
      KAFKA_CONTROLLER_LISTENER_NAMES: CONTROLLER
      KAFKA_LOG_DIRS: /tmp/kraft-combined-logs
      CLUSTER_ID: MkU3OEVBNTcwNTJENDM2Qk
```
Let's review some of the key parts of the YAML 

```yaml
 broker:
    image: apache/kafka:latest
    hostname: broker
    container_name: broker
    ports:
      - 9092:9092
```
 - `image`  contains the organization, image name and the version to use.  In this case it will always pull the latest one available.
 - `ports` specifies the ports you use to connect to Kafka.

```yaml
KAFKA_OFFSETS_TOPIC_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1
KAFKA_GROUP_INITIAL_REBALANCE_DELAY_MS: 0
KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_MIN_ISR: 1
KAFKA_TRANSACTION_STATE_LOG_REPLICATION_FACTOR: 1
```
These settings affect topic replication and min-in-sync replicas and should only ever use these values when running a single Kafka broker on Docker. For a full explanation of these and other configurations,
[consult the Kafka documentation](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/installation/configuration/broker-configs.html#cp-config-brokers).

```yaml
KAFKA_PROCESS_ROLES: broker,controller
```

> Since the introduction of [KRaft]() Kafka no longer uses [Apache ZooKeeper®](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) for managing cluster metadata, using Kafka itself instead.  One advantage of the new KRaft mode is that you can have a single Kafka broker to handle both metadata and handling client requests in small, local development environment.  The `docker-compose.yml` file for this tutorial uses this approach leading to faster startup times and simpler configuration.  Note that in a production setting you'll have distinct Kafka brokers for handling requests and operating as a cluster controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the introduction of [KRaft](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/kafka-metadata/kraft.html) Kafka no longer requires [Apache ZooKeeper®](https://zookeeper.apache.org/) for managing cluster metadata, using Kafka itself instead.  One advantage of the new KRaft mode is that you can have a single Kafka broker to handle both metadata and client requests in small, local development environment.  The `docker-compose.yml` file for this tutorial uses this approach, leading to faster startup times and simpler configuration.  Note that, in a production setting, you'll have distinct Kafka brokers for handling requests and operating as a cluster controller.
```

## Running Kafka on Docker

To run Kafka on Docker, first confirm your Docker Desktop is running.  Then execute the following command from the `kafka-on-docker` directory:

```shell
 docker compose up -d
```

> The `-d` flag runs the docker container in detached mode which is similar to running unix commands in the background with a `&`.  To confirm the container is running run this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `-d` flag runs the docker container in detached mode which is similar to running Unix commands in the background by appending `&`.  To confirm the container is running, run this command:
```

[2024-05-21 17:30:58,756] INFO [BrokerServer id=1] Finished waiting for all of the SocketServer Acceptors to be started (kafka.server.BrokerServer)
[2024-05-21 17:30:58,756] INFO [BrokerServer id=1] Transition from STARTING to STARTED (kafka.server.BrokerServer)
[2024-05-21 17:30:58,757] INFO Kafka version: 3.7.0 (org.apache.kafka.common.utils.AppInfoParser)
[2024-05-21 17:30:58,757] INFO Kafka commitId: 2ae524ed625438c5 (org.apache.kafka.common.utils.AppInfoParser)
[2024-05-21 17:30:58,757] INFO Kafka startTimeMs: 1716312658757 (org.apache.kafka.common.utils.AppInfoParser)
[2024-05-21 17:30:58,758] INFO [KafkaRaftServer nodeId=1] Kafka Server started (kafka.server.KafkaRaftServer)
```

Now let's produce and consume a message! To produce a message, let's open a command terminal on the Kafka container:

```shell
docker exec -it -w /opt/kafka/bin broker sh
```

Then create a topic:
```shell
./kafka-topics.sh --create --topic my-topic --bootstrap-server broker:29092
```
The result of this command should be 
```text
Created topic my-topic.
```

**Important**   

> Take note of the `--bootstrap-server` flag.  Because you're connecting to Kafka *_inside_* the container you use `broker:29092` for the host:port.  If you were to use a client outside the container to connect to Kafka, a producer application running on your laptop for example, you'd use `localhost:9092` as the host:port combo to connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take note of the `--bootstrap-server` flag.  Because you're connecting to Kafka *_inside_* the container, you use `broker:29092` for the host:port.  If you were to use a client outside the container to connect to Kafka, a producer application running on your laptop for example, you'd use `localhost:9092` instead.
```

> Next start a console producer with this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, start a console producer with this command:
```

 
```shell
./kafka-console-producer.sh  --topic my-topic --bootstrap-server broker:29092
```

At the prompt copy each line one at time and paste into the terminal hitting enter key after each one:
```shell
All streams
lead to Kafka
```
Then enter a `CTRL-C` to close the producer.

Now let's consume the messages with this command:

```shell
./kafka-console-consumer.sh --topic my-topic --from-beginning --bootstrap-server broker:29092
```
And you should see the following:
```text
All streams
lead to Kafka
```

Enter a `CTRL-C` to close the consumer and then type `exit` to close the docker shell.

> To shut down the container run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To shut down the container, run
```
